Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I am going
to explain an episode called “White Christmas”
from the British science fiction
series “Black Mirror.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
The episode begins in a tiny cabin in the
middle of nowhere. Joe Potter wakes up on
Christmas eve to loud music playing outside.
His roommate, Matt Trent, is in the Christmas
spirit, but Joe is not in the mood for it. Matt
and Joe have been living together for five years,
but have barely talked to each other. Matt asks
Joe his reason for being in the cabin, but he
is hesitant to talk, so Matt goes first to ease
Joe into the conversation. He starts talking
about his life prior to living in the cabin.
Matt used to be a love guru, someone who helped
nervous boys to flirt with women and seduce them.
He used an advanced technology fitted in the eyes
of the man called the Z-eyes to watch how the date
went, and listen to their conversations.
Matt talks about one particular case of a man
named Harry. Harry is a nervous man around girls
and needs Matt's help to seduce one. It is night
time and Harry has to get ready to crash a random
office party. Matt starts by turning the Z-link
on. Now, he can see and hear everything that Harry
does. He asks Harry to change from his clothes to
something more “masculine”. Harry obliges and
gets ready. When he first gets into the party,
Harry looks around and his eyes land on a
dark-haired girl hanging out with a blonde
girl and a man. Matt advises him to join the
group but talk only to the blonde girl. He does
a reverse image search to look for the girl’s name
and personality on a device. The blonde introduces
herself as Amy and the other girl as Jennifer.
Jennifer then excuses herself and leaves the
conversation. Harry goes to the washroom
and asks Matt to not watch while he pees.
Just then, we get to know that Matt isn’t alone
but a whole group of his friends are watching the
interaction online. When Harry goes back, Jennifer
is sitting alone far from the party. Matt makes
him approach her. Jennifer finally seems to be
opening up to him. While talking, she reveals
that she used to take pills but isn’t taking them
anymore. The statement unsettles Harry and Matt,
but they don’t think much of it. Jennifer goes
to the bathroom and Harry starts talking to Matt.
He genuinely likes the girl and feels like he is
cheating her by taking Matt’s help. As he chats,
Jennifer returns and sees him talking to himself.
She immediately asks him to come over to her place
and Harry obliges. She claims that the little
voice in her head is asking her to invite him.
When they reach her home, Jennifer goes to get
drinks after telling Harry to go to her room. The
guys watching them are excited anticipating sexual
advances from her, but Harry retaliates saying
that he isn’t comfortable with Matt watching.
Jennifer comes back with the drinks and demands
Harry get on the bed. He hesitantly agrees
when suddenly, she forces him to take a gulp
of the drink. Jennifer thinks that Harry too has
voices in his head, and assumes Harry is insane
like her. Turns out she has poisoned the drink to
kill herself and Harry so they don’t have to hear
the voices anymore. Matt and the others watching
are horrified when Harry starts coughing blood.
She eventually forces him to drink the juice and
kills him. Matt quickly turns his computer off and
asks the other guys to destroy any video evidence
they have of the interaction. He doesn’t want to
be associated with the murder, as his wife doesn’t
know he is a love guru. Matt gathers the evidence
in a bin and sneaks out of the room to throw
them out. However, he is caught by his wife,
Claire. She finds out about his involvement with
the crime and him being a perverted love guru.
The two get into a fight and Clair blocks him.
With the new technology of human blocking,
the person being blocked will only appear as
an anonymous shape to the blocker. The two
cannot talk or communicate. Back in the present,
Matt reveals that being a love guru was his side
hustle, his main job was somewhat unusual.
He starts by talking about a woman named Greta.
She is sitting on a hospital bed when a nurse
comes and asks if she is ready to perform
the procedure. When the process starts, Greta
falls unconscious under anesthesia. Then we see
something being taken out of the woman’s head.
A nurse keeps an egg-like device on the table.
The device has a mind of itself that we can hear
her talking. It turns out, Greta’s whole memory
has been coded and put into the device. So, now
the egg is a second Greta that cannot move, but
still has her consciousness and personality.
In the following scene, the device is in front of
Matt. He explains to the voice that he works for
a company called smart intelligence. The company
has figured out a way to make digital clones of
people and store them in an egg-shaped object. The
clones are called cookies and are used as personal
assistants by real people. The real Greta has made
her cookie to help her through her daily life.
A control panel in front of the cookie controls
everything in the house like the temperature,
lighting, and all the electronics. She has to use
them to help Greta with basic things. However,
the cookie refuses to be a slave to Greta.
Matt has expected this, so he sets a one-minute
timer on the device. During this time,
the cookie Greta will live one year of life in one
minute. When the minute is over and Matt talks to
her again, she is startled. After spending a year
in isolation, she begs Matt to give her something
to work on. Matt happily says that she will be
working as Greta’s assistant from now on. We see
then the cookie monitoring the real Greta. She
turns the light and alarm on in the morning. She
makes a shot of espresso for her and makes a voice
narrate her schedule. That is her life now.
Back in present, Joe finally feels comfortable
and starts opening up about his life. He had a
beautiful fiancee named Beth. On a snowy day, the
two go out as Beth’s father tells them to be back
home soon. In the following scene, we see Beth
and Joe having dinner with two of their friends.
Beth doesn’t feel good after dinner so she
goes to sleep early. As Joe cleans after her,
he spills the contents of the bin and finds a
positive pregnancy kit. Shocked, he confronts
Beth about it. She dismisses it and says that she
wants an abortion and is too young to have a kid.
Joe tries to convince her, saying that he will
take care of the kid, but Beth is strictly against
it. When he starts to scream at her, she blocks
him. Joe’s voice changes into a muffled tone and
the two only see a shadow of each other now.
He throws a vase to the wall and storms out of the
room. The following morning, Beth rushes to her
car outside while a still blocked Joe follows her.
Beth drives away somewhere and never comes back.
The block stops Joe from calling or texting her,
so he has no means of communication. A week passes
but she doesn’t return. Joe gets to know that she
has left the job without any explanation
and no one knows where she is. Moreover,
he cannot even look at images of her as the block
option covers every image of the person.
A few months later, he is in town when he
sees a silhouette nearby and recognizes her
as Beth. It is clear to him that she is still
pregnant. Surprised that she had kept his child,
he approaches her and asks her to turn the block
off. But all Beth hears is a muffled voice and
yells for help. Eventually the police arrest Joe.
He is desperate to meet his child, but doesn’t
know where Beth is. He knows where her father
lives and is sure that Beth is going to be there
at Christmas. So, next Christmas, he goes to her
father’s home which lies in the middle of nowhere.
There, he finally sees Beth and their kid.
Since the block option blurs offspring as well,
he cannot see if the baby is a boy or a girl.
Joe is beyond confused as to why Beth kept the
baby but doesn’t want him in her life. A lot
of time goes by, Joe has made it a ritual to
visit Beth’s father every Christmas eve and look
at them from a distance. He claims it was like
watching his kid grow up even though he couldn’t
see the kid’s face. Four years later, he realizes
that the child was a girl for the first time.
One day, Joe is searching through channels on the
TV and sees Beth’s picture on it. She had died
in a train crash, so the block was turned off.
Joe can see her face for the first
time in years. The next Christmas,
he wraps a Christmas globe as a present for his
daughter and heads to Beth’s grandfather’s home.
When he gets a glimpse at her, he is sure she is
not his daughter. Shocked, he follows her into
the house. He realizes Beth had been cheating
on him with her co-worker. Beth’s father is
shocked to see him at his house and asks him to
go away. In anger and frustration, Joe hits the
old man with the snow globe, injuring his head.
Joe looks towards the wall and sees a clock.
cabin slowly changing into Beth’s father’s home.
Back then Joe had left the old man unconscious in
the kitchen and never came back. He died in the
very spot and the little girl stayed in her room
for the day. The following day, she gave her dead
grandfather a gift she had made him. Realizing
that no one is going to come, she went out to
search for help, while it was snowing heavily.
Since the house was in the middle of nowhere, she
died of cold. As he finishes telling the story,
Joe is in tears, he asks God to forgive him.
Matt asks him if he confesses his crime and Joe
admits he does. He seems to be interviewing Joe at
this point. All of a sudden, Matt talks to someone
else claiming that he has done “it” and asking
them to let him out now. The scene changes to Matt
at a police station talking to some officials.
In front of him lies a egg-like cloning device.
As it turns out, Matt has been talking to Joe’s
cookie this whole time. Using the technology,
he created his own cookie to try to make Joe
confess his crime. Matt had made a deal with the
police that if he can make Joe confess, he will
be let free for not reporting Harry’s death and
conducting illegal dating services. The police
say that he will be on their sex offender list
and will be permanently blocked from everyone.
When Matt goes out, he sees that everyone around
him is just a silhouette. The world is blurred and
muffled for him. Moreover, everyone sees him as a
red shadow, indicating that he is a sex offender.
A police officer sets a timer of a thousand years
per minute on Joe’s device and leaves him like
that. The cookie Joe now lives a thousand years
in a minute in isolation. We see him struggling
to keep himself sane. As the camera pans out,
he seems to be inside a loop of snow globes.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out. Thank you for watching.